and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business growth
show delighted to be joined by david
walsh today
david is one of the most in-demand
certified youtube specialists in the uk
david will tell you how views and
subscribers of vanity metrics thrown
around to make people feel good about
their channels
so they guide you through the top things
you should really be focusing on
consistently to fill your sales pipeline
and how you can use video and how you
can use youtube
effectively david a very warm welcome
sir how are you doing
i'm fantastic thank you very much for
having me no worries man so looking
forward to this one um this is a bit of
a fresh topic for the show we've not
really covered youtube much before
so i'm sure there's gonna be plenty of
actual nuggets that our audience of
business owners sales professionals
marketers alike
can learn from your good self um i
really would love to jump straight in at
the deep end
and go for why likes why views why
subscribers why are they david why are
they vanity metrics and why are they
things that we shouldn't really care
about
okay uh that's a great question and it
this probably came more to light with uh
the likes of instagram and those other
platforms and in that those all those
things can be bought quite easily and
there's so many people
out there buying views and buying
followers on those other platforms you
know unfortunately there's some people
doing that on
youtube as well but it got highlighted
there that these vanity metrics
were being purchased which then those
influencers could then get brand deals
and they could charge more money for
posts and stuff like that so that has
somewhat
um permeated throughout the world now
that oh you got millions of views and
millions of followers and subscribers
and stuff
those are the things to have and as we
touched on there those are vanity
metrics for sales professionals for
business owners and entrepreneurs and
stuff
it's not about the millions of views and
the millions of followers
they're nice especially for the ego but
at the end of the day
how much do they put in your bank
account
uh when it comes to you know your
accounts and stuff like that
that's really what we got to focus on
now when it comes to youtube
um the the the views are oh you know the
views are a thing to look at but
what you really got to look at on
youtube is what's called watch time
and youtube is the second
most mature platform out there after
linkedin linkedin happens to be the
oldest
social platform out there but youtube
happens to be the second
and they figured out quite early that
people were gaming the system
for views on videos and views were the
thing to help you get ranked
in the search engine as youtube is a
search engine just like it's big brother
google
so they then said well if somebody
watches a video like 10 or
20 seconds uh well it needs to be 30
seconds to count as a view on youtube
so if they watch 30 seconds and then
bugger off then
that doesn't really help your average
what's called your average view duration
is just 30 seconds
so if you've got a a 10 minute video
your view duration
is uh one tenth so five percent
approximately five percent average view
duration and that's pants
absolute pants now if you get if you get
somebody towards the end
more on your videos that means your
average view duration goes up your
watch time goes up and that's the key
metric on youtube
for success so it's about creating great
quality content
that people want to watch pretty much
all the way through and that's really
what you got to focus on with youtube
got it okay so focusing on the the
average view durations
focus on the watch time yeah um rather
than just putting anything out
okay correct so if we could look at this
perhaps from a ground-up approach
perhaps to someone that's a novice
perhaps someone's it's a there's a
business owner
that knows that like you've mentioned
david that youtube's a powerful platform
but it is a big search engine that's a
great way to get yourself out there and
obviously get get views on your content
and get potential leads potential sales
how should we approach
that so say let's say for example we
offer i don't know financial services
yes and we we've got no idea where to
start
um we've we've perhaps just created a
youtube account um what are some of the
things we should consider
that we can become like you mentioned a
trusted authority that we can start
getting views on our content
how how are some of the ways that we
should tackle and address it david
brilliant question brilliant question
okay so now we're talking about seo
so just like with as mentioned earlier
it's big brother google
uh youtube is the search engine and you
as a small business owner or even a
small
youtube channel can use this to your
advantage to get in front of your target
audience
even if there are other companies out
there irrespective of the niche you're
in
uh if you've got a bigger company or
bigger companies and there's high
competition
in your niche you can still get in front
of your target audience with
good seo search engine optimization so
you actually have
four types of consideration when
somebody goes to a search engine
on what they're looking for the first
one is that their research so if it's
financial services
it could be what do i need uh what
financial
products do i need over 50 that could be
something they're researching about
then the second one would be comparison
so this would be
do i get uh do i need to focus on a
pension or something else whatever
whatever that would be in the financial
services
um world then the third consideration
is the buy intent and this is what we're
looking for uh well we're actually
looking for all of them but this one is
the one where they have their credit
card in hand debit card nano cash or
whatever in hand and they're looking to
buy
and it's like uh it could be i'll i'll
move away from financial services into
something more
uh like a product or something like that
say printers
so uh generic printer um how uh how long
is the warranty on a hp
printer like that is a buying one an
even better one would be
how did uh how you know uh what get a
how to get a hp printer next day or same
day delivery now that's a
very um buying keyword right there
so how can i get one next day or same
day
and then you the fourth type is success
so this is the people who've bought the
product and now they're looking to use
it or figure out
how it works and stuff like that so how
to change an incr
ink cartridge in a hp printer
so those would be your success and
that's where your
customer service department uh takes
over that role but
up to like the first three you need to
have
a good content so that when you uh those
uh three buying uh searching intent
uh are being activated on the you on on
youtube or even google because your
videos will also rank on google too
yeah you need to be able to have that
content for
those people got it okay interesting
interesting all right so four main types
of things that we should consider
yes and should we go after all four
david
or should we consider these
strategically based on what our business
offers
or is there a certain way we should go
about it so uh you definitely what you
definitely want stuff in the buy intent
like how to buy a print or best place to
buy a print or something like that you
definitely
have to have your content there uh so
whatever your
buy intent keywords are that people are
typing into the search engine box
you definitely need to have content
around that then um
if some people will do the comparison
some
won't like its insurance is admiral
admiral versus churchill something like
that
um or hp versus brother if it's printers
or whatever
um so some people will feel comfortable
doing the comparisons
some won't because they don't like to
compare themselves against the
competition
but the research one you definitely need
to do
because they're uh they're brand new
people who may not know anything about
you your services or what you have to
offer
and you can use that to get in front of
those people
and if you can get in front of them
early then you can basically
indoctrinate them into your way of doing
business and then convert them into
sales very very quickly and i would also
recommend having
some success content uh we're working
with the client
and they said well all our success stuff
is paid for by people who go through our
training
and we want them to um basically that's
where they're going to get it and i said
still put out
some of your success stuff and mention
it's in your training
because those people who are looking for
that
um sort of the the um
where they have they know there's uh
stuff after the training it's not just
i do the training and then i've nothing
no follow-up
that they know that you've got follow-up
content for them
that they can access and you just give a
little bit of that for free on your
youtube channel or even on your website
and then you say and the rest of it's
inside our paid portal which you'll have
access to
okay okay and for the the research side
of things david are there
any tangible examples that you could
give us or any tools that we can use to
actually understand
what we should be going at when it's
when it's um producing video content so
rather than just thinking i think
my customers are searching for this i
actually know my customers searching for
this
yeah so the easiest way is to start
typing inside of the youtube search bar
and so the auto predict will start
giving you
what people are actually searching for
so these are the actual
keyword phrases and keyword terms that
people are
typing inside the search bar because uh
youtube
google want to make your experience
amazing they're going to
help you with your uh intended
search term so start typing in like how
to
or whatever it is um how to get uh how
to set up a pension if it's in the
financial space
or how to get an isa whatever it is
start
typing that into the search bar and then
youtube will tell you the exact
phrases that people are typing in there
that you need to create your content
around
then you can head on over to its big
brother google do the exact same thing
they're both search engines and they're
both slightly different people will type
in some
different content into google and it
will in youtube
because youtube is a video platform
they'll know that they're going to get a
video on there whereas
with google they'll know that they can
get text they can get audio they can get
video
and it's it so it has slightly different
search terms in there
then if you're familiar with google's
adwords
platform um which is their advertising
platform they have a keyword tool in
there that will actually give you
a search volume on what terms are being
uh how how often people are searching
for a specific term
it will also tell you how expensive it
is to advertise for that term
so that will also tell you how much your
competition is paying for those terms
so if you can rank your videos for those
key terms especially if they're very
expensive
like in the financial services space
then you're going to be
way ahead of your competition awesome
okay well that gives us a good
foundation
of what we need to consider in mind so
that the research side of things the
comparison
the buying intent and then the success
and then just like you said we can use
youtube we can use google to actually
look at the potential searches that our
customers are going for and i guess make
a list
of all the pages exactly exactly and
that's what we you know we work with our
like our customers uh they just go
through
they start creating a list start
creating a spreadsheet so then they get
a good idea of how
how much weight these keyword terms have
in their space how
often people are searching for them so
that
the more the more people are searching
for a specific keyword
then they're going to create more
content around them okay
all right so we've got the foundation
now we need to actually create media we
need to get some videos done
how can we make sure that we're not just
waffling on put something that only our
gran's gonna enjoy
and actually know it's gonna one build
trust to be entertaining and three like
we said at the start
get that all entire all-important
average view duration um
ticking along nicely yeah now the thing
is if it wasn't for so many brands
around the place
probably a lot of videos wouldn't get
watched but now how do we take it from
grand level
up to the next level and get in front of
our customers so
the thing is that you need to be short
sharp and
punchy with your content and it is very
easy for people to waffle and they'll
pick a subject and they'll just talk for
ages
uh we also work with people who are on
the other end who are
so succinct they'll go well i've done my
video and it's two minutes long and i go
well that's not long enough
um we recommend videos are at least a
minimum of six minutes
preferably eight to twelve um
so and the way we do that is by doing
say five ways to do x or ten ways to do
y
um so that means you have to be short
and succinct with your those
specific tips that you give and that
also gives people a good framework
to be able to go okay so if i come up
with 10 ways to
the 10 top 10 pensions to invest in if
you're over 50
something like that um so it
it it gives you a framework so that
you're not
uh waffling on a specific tangent that
doesn't
that is not value for people plus when
you use numbers
in your content it uh it allows people
to register okay so i'm going to get 10
tips there
great i i understand that if it's a 12
minute video i'm going to get 10 tips so
it's about
a minute a tip which yeah it's it's easy
for the brain to understand
whereas if you're going uh best uh
best pension for over 50s and you've got
a 20 minute video
the brain doesn't comprehend
where the value is okay now i'm not to
say not saying that that
20 minute video isn't probably the best
that isn't the best video on the
best pension on the world but if you can
help
your potential viewer understand the
value of your content
by using numbers by using time
um and i can explain a bit more about
that and
it gives that potential viewer
a better understanding of how valuable
your content can be because they're
looking at well
what's my exchange if i give you my time
what value am i going to get back
and that's why we recommend that your
content needs to be as short as it needs
to be but also as long as it needs to be
um like i've created content in the past
where i've tried to shave a minute or
two off here and there and the video
just bombed instead of leaving it at six
minutes i brought it down to four if it
left at six minutes it would have
performed much much better so it's not
about how
long your video is it's like how much
content
can you put in there so that people are
engaged watching it
okay all right so yeah it's getting that
balancing act by the sounds of it david
making sure it's it's not going on and
on it packs a punch it gets to the point
and like you said leveraging
numbers leveraging time and tips to do x
or taking basically why um but not
shortening
at shortening it at the dexterity
getting rid of the key points and
perhaps ruining the experience so
exactly with that in mind
are there any things we need to consider
in terms of perhaps the production value
perhaps how we put our message across so
we actually sound like we know what
we're talking about
rather than filming something on our
phone outdoors on a windy day
that just looks like uh absolutely
absolute terrible video production
yeah so um now first of all there's
actually nothing wrong with filming
stuff on your phone
it's the the phones today are actually
as
good as most uh dslrs that you're going
to get
so we actually have a quite a number of
clients who are filming their content
indoors so they're not outdoors in the
in the wind they're actually indoors
filming with their phones
um so using your phone as your initial
camera is a great place to start
everyone's got one in their pocket
so you've you basically have a a studio
and at the beginning of a
video studio in your pocket as well and
so that's a good place to start
um the the most important part of video
is actually
the audio which is might seem
counter-intuitive
but people will listen to a bad looking
video but they won't
watch or they won't watch they won't
list they won't watch
a good-looking video with bad audio
they'll switch off
very very quickly so the audio is the
most important part of your video
um so invest in a good mic the thing is
a good mic is like 20 quid on amazon it
is
very inexpensive um whether that's a
little shotgun mic
um you can get one for 20 quid there's a
little lapel mic again
20 quid on amazon very inexpensive so
uh and just get a tripod and a little
holder
pop your phone on there plug in your mic
press record
use the 10 tips framework and you're
pretty much good to go
so focus on the best video quality you
can make
and the thing is is that we've seen it
time and time again is that people will
start with their phone
then they'll invest in a camera then
they'll they'll look at increasing the
they'll get some lights they'll not even
get a better mic
and so people will invest in the video
production over time
but i recommend just start with
something that you've got if you've got
a
light coming through a nice window that
you don't have direct
sunlight through the window then that's
a great place for your light source
get a 20 quid mic plug it into your
phone stick it on tripod and just start
there
makes sense okay yeah so just start with
what you've got sort out a decent mic
because audio sounds like the most
important thing
and then over time i guess as you build
up your channel you can you can upgrade
exactly so
how can we to drive this a bit forward
how can we
actually position ourselves as as an
authority yeah unless
are there other things we need to
consider or is it just the way that we
title the videos making sure we've done
proper research making sure we're
looking at the four pillars that we
talked about at the start or the other
things that we need to bear
in mind so we we do become an authority
over time in our industry
yes the the the probably the biggest
thing to do
is to be consistent uh in fact it's to
be predictable
because predictability breeds trust and
that's how you become the authority is
that
you are the trusted person in your niche
in your marketplace
because you've shown up every single
week and that's that's one thing we just
recommend to people is just you can
start with one video a week you don't
need to be like on instagram where
you're doing 10 videos a day or
something like that
one video a week just showing up same
time same day each week
talking about your specific topic so
you become predictable you become
predictable to your audience you put
you which is very important you become
predictable to youtube which is also
important
because once they understand and they
know that you're showing up
consistently every single week they're
going to push your content out in front
of more people
who their algorithm understands uh would
like to see your content
so that's really what you need to do is
just show up for your audience
um every single week minimum once a week
and then just have great quality content
and over time
as that predictability builds up that
then turns into trust
which then you grow your audience and
you become the authority
yeah i guess if people see you enough
times right they're gonna over time
build that trust in it exactly you can
compare it to posting on linkedin really
so it's not one of those things you can
post one time and get a whole bunch of
leads you've got to do it for a
month nearly on a daily basis posting
out valuable content that's useful
and then over time that's when the
inbound opportunities will start to
arise
okay and once we've once we've started
putting out consistent videos david that
follow the
the guidelines that you've kindly laid
out for us how do we turn that into
potential leads potential customers what
should we be thinking about in terms of
our call to actions
how do we make sure the videos aren't
too much of a sales pitch but at the
same time do actually generate that
return that we want to see
okay so here is the key thing um
it's like we call this social selling uh
and a couple of friends of mine
different spaces we use the same term as
social selling
where basically you're letting people
know about your products but
it isn't a hard sell oh and to get it
the best offer today make sure to click
this link here right now and
like that's an ad if you want to do ads
then make an
ad advertising video or make a sales
video and tell people to go
watch that sales video because then
they're going to be hot uh
prospects because if they do take the
time to watch the sales video
then they're obviously interested in
your products and services so what we
recommend
our clients do is create specific sales
videos
for your products put them on your
youtube channel
and then invite people to watch those
videos from your other content
uh what a lot of people miss out on is
having a next
logical step so i've got a i've got an
itch that needs scratching i go to
youtube i find the solution for my
itch but my itch will only last five
minutes
and that's what typically like five tips
or a how-to video
will do it it will solve a solution for
a short period of time
what i'm looking for is obviously a
longer-term solution and that's where
your products and services are there to
help now if you don't let me know about
those products and services
you're doing a disservice if you try
hard selling me on your products and
services
you're doing me a disservice it's
getting that balance right
to invite me to find out more about your
products and services
so that could be as i said putting a
video up
talking about a specific product and
putting another product
another video up about your other
services that you have to offer and
inviting me to go and watch
those videos then i make the choice
i'm in control and when i see your
content if i've been fed
your content over a couple weeks or a
couple of months
and then i go and watch your sales video
and your sales video makes a lot of
sense to me as the next
logical step for me to take in order to
solve the bigger itch that i've got
then that's how you're going to convert
people into
uh great customers great clients and
long-term
uh customers as well yeah okay well that
makes sense dave i do have a question in
terms of the
so you mentioned perhaps putting
together dedicated sales videos
yes and then you also mentioned putting
together non-sales videos but then
pointing people to those
correct how how does that work to
someone that's perhaps not
not as um clued up on youtube how how
would that work on a
step-by-step basis okay um so uh first
thing would recommend is go to my
youtube channel which is youtube.com
forward slash david walsh online
what we're going to talk about in here
is calls to
action so you'll see this on all my
videos so if you want a
a proper example go and watch um all of
them not just one or two make sure to
watch all of them i've only got 300 so
it won't take you that much time
but what you want to do is um have a
call to action at the end of your video
um and that would be um so you can
invite people to
watch the next video in your video
series and that would look like and if
you want to know
more about how our printers will
actually save you time and more money
make sure to watch that video there but
if you would like to know more about
this
specific printer on um how you can print
the best looking photos and
the with the least amount of ink used
make sure to watch that video right
there where we've got a video
uh just talking about this whole uh
product
something like that um so you would give
them the option to watch another video
or then go and watch um the video
specific about that product
or you another way would be in midway
through your content is have a throwaway
comment and this is what i like about
this
is have a throwaway comment and if you'd
like to know more about this printer
make sure to click the link in the
description below where we actually have
a video dedicated to that if you want to
buy one
and then you move on with your content
got it okay so it can be a mix of
pointing people to other videos but you
can also direct them to websites or
landing pages you can get more
information there
okay so just keeping that call to action
at the end of the video rather than
constantly throughout i guess that
might be okay if you've got if your call
to action is a throwaway comment midway
through then that could go to your
website
if it's at the end i would definitely
recommend that it goes to another video
because
this is this helps with your watch time
um
i one thing i didn't mention earlier
you've got two types of watch time one
is the watch time on the specific video
which is video watch time and then you
have what's called session watch time
which is how long people stay on the
youtube
platform after watching your initial
video
so if you can get bounce people from
video to video to video and now we're
going back to creating
uh authority as well that you're you
have
another touch point with that person
every time they watch a video
that's another touch point so if you if
you need
those 12 or plus touch points to make a
sale
the more videos they watch the more
touch points they have the closer you
get to that sale
so bouncing them to another video is
another touch point that you can
knock that off your list and get them
closer to the sale
okay well this has all been especially
useful for myself and i'm sure everyone
tuning in as we're building up the
youtube as well as a podcast steadily
and you've given us some great
guidelines some great foundations to
follow david
are there any other things that we need
to consider when we want to
kind of up our view rate perhaps we've
put out videos that might have followed
some of these rules
but we're thinking not really getting
the engagement not really getting the
views
i was hoping for are there any other
lesser known tips that we should
consider to trying to to get people or
idle customers rather viewing these
videos
yeah so uh first of all i will answer
the engagement one
so uh it's engagement and promotion so
first one is engagement
ask a specific question related to the
content you've given
on the video so if it is a like we'll
we'll take the
the the printer example again so uh what
would you like to
print with this type of printer let me
know in the comments area below i'd love
to know why you
we have so many people who like to print
different things i'd love to know what
you want to print
so that's a specific question for
that specific video rather than oh let
me know your comments in the comments
area below
there generic no one's going to do that
unless they are
there's something polarizing in the
video then they they feel the need
to put a comment in but if you ask a
specific question
then that gets the brain thinking and
it's like hmm maybe i'd like to print
photographs of the kids or i'd like to
send stuff to granny and grandad blah
blah
that sort of thing or it's you know i'm
printing documents off not that many
people print documents off today
but we never know and it could pull out
some
um weird tangents that you just don't
know are in the
in your audience so ask a first of all
let's ask a specific question
and to follow on from that that is a
great way to find out what your audience
is thinking about your products and
services as well
um or you can if you're in the financial
services space
ask them so what are your questions that
you have regarding financial services
pensions whatever the topic is
um let me know in the comments area
below and i'll do the best i can to help
you get that question
answered now you're looking to solve
people's problems well you're looking to
find out people's problems so you can
solve them
and that's a great way to find out how
to create more content and also
engage with people on there so that's
the engagement piece
the second thing is about
getting more views you have to promote
the heck out of your content um there's
this youtuber said there's about 400
hours of video uploaded every single
minute i think it's closer to 500 maybe
even 600
hours uploaded every single minute
that's a lot of competition that's a lot
of video that the youtube ai has to go
through
and to understand where it belongs in
their search engine
and if your content isn't great
um you need to promote the
bejesus out of it so that it gets into
the search engine so that youtube takes
a notice of it and starts putting you uh
starts
uh ranking you in the search results
um also as well like a grow here's a
great way to this is like embedded in
your website if you're creating content
put it on your website as well embed
that video put a bit of keyword text
on the blog post or whatever and just
use that as an embed
a great way to get to send a signal back
to youtube
uh put it out on all your social
platforms
put it out in your email list wherever
you can promote your videos
promote promote promote always the case
uh so many people come time and time
again go
they think it's a magic bullet that
they'll put up a video and it's gonna
get millions of views
not gonna happen especially if you're
starting out on youtube you need to be
actively promoting your content every
single
week so that you're getting youtube to
take notice of you
of your content and then it will send
more people to you
makes it makes perfect sense and i
really like the first point there david
about asking questions at the end of the
video
yes like you mentioned you're getting
live customer feedback you're actually
hearing what people
want to see what they want to learn
about what's interesting to them
yes and i guess that gives you a heap of
ideas for your future content so rather
than just scratching your head you're
actually
putting out media that people want to
see rather than what you think they want
to see
and also as well products
yeah yeah yeah i like it i like it okay
and then the second point makes sense
yeah promote promote the heck out of it
to
ramp that engagement up over time and
obviously send signals and build up your
audience
awesome um david really appreciate the
conversation man it's been an absolute
pleasure i've learnt a ton i'm sure
everyone tuning in has as well
um please do tell us a bit more about
how we can learn from yourself how we
can get in touch and the best way
to connect with you um as i mentioned
earlier
um yeah you can uh follow my uh youtube
you can subscribe
at youtube.com forward slash david walsh
online
also as well here on linkedin uh david
also online you'll find me there too
um instagram david ross online
everything basically is david walsh
online
and if you want to contact us go to
davidrossonline.com
uh we also have a new company being set
up vidgrow
where we're working with more and more
organizations and uh
bigger companies to help them grow their
youtube channel to fill their
sales pipelines too so vidggrow.couk
which will be available very soon
but yeah david walsh online just drop us
an email or catch me on linkedin
uh info david walsh online will get to
me or just
dm me on linkedin awesome david once
again thanks so much for coming on
thank you very much it's been an
absolute pleasure cheers and if you
enjoyed the show be sure to subscribe to
business
growth show wherever the heck you get
your podcast we interview business
leaders each and every week to provide
actionable tips
across sales marketing and growth to
help you grow your business and increase
your sales
thanks very much for tuning in